All right.
So welcome to the next section of the course.
We're going to kick this section off by refactoring another component to utilize the composition API.
We're going to focus on the Spotlight component.
And as a reminder, the Spotlight component is the one that makes a request to our spotlights end point
to get a bunch of data, and that uses it to iterate over and create these two cards we see right here
on our front page.
So if I go back to the S code, I have the Spotlight View component open here.
You can see here we have a piece of data, but more importantly, we have a mounted lifecycle look.
As a reminder, the mounted hook is automatically run by view whenever it mounts the component, whenever
it inserts it into your browser, into the page.
And what happens in this mounted lifecycle hook or this method, alternatively, is we make the request
to our slash spotlights, end point using the access library, and once we get the data, we save it
to the spotlight's data property on this component.
So we have not yet talked about how we can replace vue's lifecycle hooks using the composition API.
So this lesson, as always, will offer us some something new and a new way to refactor our old components.
So as always, let's begin by commenting out what we have here and we're going to replace it using the
new composition API.
So above Axios, I'm going to import ref from view.
We're going to need ref because that is the new way that we can store reactive data.
All right.
So my goal with this is to eventually replace or spotlight's array and then I'm going to introduce another
important that we have not used before and it is called On Mountain.
It's going to ride on mountain out like so.
So for every lifecycle hook that exists in the options API, there is now going to be a complementary
function that we can import from view that we can utilize within our setup method that will basically
do the same thing.
So in this case on Mount, it is going to be a function that's going to give us the opportunity to run
some kind of logic on component mount.
And you don't have to do what I'm about to do, but I'm just going to click into this by holding the
command key on my Mac and pressing into this.
This is going to take me into the typescript definitions, which we don't have to worry about.
But the key takeaway here is here are all the available functions that we're now able to import from
view.
So on activated on before mount on before update here we have on on mounted on updated and these all
correspond to similarly named methods in the output in the options API, they are now in portable functions
in the composition API.
So hopefully the idea here is nothing new.
It goes with the entire trend we've been talking about, about how the composition API is more functional,
more important than wiring up everything as methods on the component.
And this is just to show you that we have a whole bunch of these functions available to be important,
but how do they actually work?
Well, let's actually put our on mounted function to use here.
So as always, I'll define my setup method.
And we will begin by replacing our former spotlights piece of data with a ref.
So right here I will do spotlights and I'll invoke the ref function and my starter value to start out
will be an empty array.
So my idea here is the exact same.
I want to have an empty array.
Then on mount I want to make the API request and when I get the array of values back.
And by the way, this is what that array looks like.
We defined that in our debate adjacent filed.
It's these two objects.
Once I get that array of two objects, I want to overwrite this array to be that new array, which should
force the component to render due to Spotlight's reactivity.
And then this thing will be rendered with the V4 and then render the actual cards on the screen.
So before I forget, since I'm using spotlights in my channel, let's make sure we return spotlights
right here.
But now the more important question is how do we overwrite this empty array with our fetch data?
So what I'm going to do is create a inline function, an arrow function that I will call get spotlights.
And I'm not actually going to make this a returned property on my object, but I do need to define some
kind of function because the on mounted function that I imported here expects a function as an argument.
So on mounted in some ways is comparable to the computed function which we've explored earlier.
It takes a function as an argument and it's going to run that function based on when the component mounts.
Now of course, the key difference is when it comes to the computed function that's going to reevaluate
itself every single time.
A react to value that it is watching changes in comparison and on mounted will only run once.
But we still need to pass it a function and in order to pass in a function, the easiest ways to define
one inline with a name and that provides some context.
So in the body of get spotlights, I'm going to copy most of the logic I have here.
So I'm going to start with my basic URL which we're getting from the environment variable.
Then I'm going to create my final URL by appending the slash spotlights to the end of my base URL.
Then I'm going to make my request with Axios and notice that is an asynchronous operation.
So we're using the daisy, we're using the await keyword right here.
And because of that, we need to make sure that we make our get spotlight's function async.
So once again, a wait right here means we need to make this an async function.
Now, keep in mind, it's still not going to run.
We're just defining the function, the recipe, the procedure to be run.
But there's nothing here that's forcing it to be run because we haven't invoked it.
And once we get that response added from Axios, remember that that response object has a data property
and that is the actual array of values.
And then what I want to do is save this array of values to my spotlight's data.
So remember, spotlight is a reactive object.
So if we want to update its internal data, we have to call the value property or access it to be more
specific and then overwrite it with the new response data.
Okay.
So we have defined a async function called get spotlights that is not being invoked.
So how do we actually run this logic and how do we tell you to run this logic when the component mounts?
Well, we're going to use the on mounted function that we imported, and what we provided is the on
invoked function that we want it to run when the component mounts.
So in here we're simply going to pass get spotlights.
And that is it.
So once again, on a mountain, you do not want to actually provide a invoked function in here because
that will produce the return value.
You provide the function, you just provide the name of the procedure you want it to execute.
And because we're specifically using the on mounted function, it knows to run this one whenever the
component mounts.
And similarly, if we were to use any of the other ones, like, for example, on our mountain or on
updated, it knows to run those at the specific moments in the components lifecycle.
Of course, you have to be mindful about which one you're running.
For example, on it will only run once when the component mounts, while something like on updated will
run many times every time the component updates.
As a matter of fact.
So if you're using this one, you can provide a function to it as well.
But just be mindful that this will execute that function each time the component updates.
So it's not like these functions each run only once or multiple times.
Each one is different depending on its use case, depending on how it's being used.
So you do need to know a little bit about what's available to you, but I hope it makes general sense
that this will only run once.
Well, this has the opportunity to run many times.
Every time the component updates.
Right.
So with that said, we have everything we need to replace our former implementation.
So I'm going to remove our old code right here, save that we still have a single setup method.
We're having a function here that we're running when the component mounts.
When it gets back, it's saving to our reactive spotlight's object.
We're making the spotlight's array reactive and available as a return property, which means we're going
to be able to iterate over that array with the ally and render all this content.
So if I go back to the browser.
And I refresh the page.
Notice everything is still working just fine.
So everything is still functional.
We haven't broken anything.
All right, so that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.